>> Jason Pamental: Again,
bring coming back to implementing type.
Fout or flash of unstyled text,
my favorite way of describing
it is this is a feature.
It's not a bug.
What we want to do, again, is make sure
that the content shows up there on
the left,
as opposed to what happens on the right.
A little bit of history here,
when web fonts were first implemented,
they would always show the fall back and
then flip over to showing
the web font once it loaded.
Safari very quickly changed and
decided they wouldn't show anything
until the web font loaded.
And when I mean they wouldn't show
anything, there was no time out.
So if that web font never loaded,
you never got any content.
That was really frustrating,
there are very few ways around that,
other than things like
we're gonna look at today.
More recently font display has
been adopted by most browsers so
that in the @font-face declaration you
can say font display swap if you like.
Which means as soon as it sees this, it
will say okay, I will go to the fall back
font, render stuff and
then swap it out when the web font loads.
That in my mind,
is the most desired behavior.
That's what I usually lean towards so
that we get the content on screen.
And then once the web font loads,
it kind of comes into the look
that we would expect.
But you'll notice that that blocking
request with the CSS waiting for
the web fonts was even blocking
this photo from loading.
So, there's a whole lot of other
unintended consequences that you end up
with by not managing that process.
And it's been possible since 2010, through
various different font loading libraries.
So, the whole key are these classes.
WF for web font inactive or active.
And those are not native to the browser,
they just happens to be what enough people
started to use that
it's relatively common.
So, I kinda try and standardize on that.
But that's what Typekit
will inject in your page,
that's what fonts.com will
now inject in your page.
So that way if you are using
something from a service or
you are working on stuff on your own,
it sort of stays consistent.
And that way, you will always have
a class on the html element that you
can look at and scope your CSS to style
things when they get to the screen.
So, now we can do something really simple
like if Trade Gothic is the web font that
I want, if I then include right below it,
WF inactive body.
And I just specify Helvetica and
Arial instead of Trade Gothic.
Whenever that class is present, it
renders the content on screen instantly.
And what we can also do if we like is add
styling to that inactive
class description, so
that we can play around with letter
spacing, line height, font size, margins.
So that we can minimize the re-flow, and
I have a good example that we'll
look at today of seeing this action.
It takes a little bit of extra work,
because now you're tweaking styles across
break points with these non-web fonts.
But the benefit that you
get out of that is a nearly
seamless experience where none
of the content moves around.
So, when things load up initially and
the web fonts haven't shown up yet,
the design integrity is still maintained.
As long as you have a fall back
font that is even relatively close,
you can get it to not reflow.
Obviously if you're using like a script
typeface or something handwritten,
it's a little bit harder, but
I will come back to looking at this.
Watch that square on the left with
the heading back to some conference.
It comes into that hand written font but
it still doesn't really reflow or
move the design around that much.
So it is possible to just get
the metrics close enough,
so you can imagine it like a jpeg
coming in that's all rough and blurry.
And then it gets more and more clear.
It's a similar experience.
And in a lot of testing
with users that I've done,
sometimes they just don't even notice.
They just tune it out.
As long as things stay in the same place
and they can interact with the content,
they don't even really notice that it
went from one font to another one.
I'm not sure what that says about the font
choices, but we'll leave that one alone.
So I'm stressing this last point
because it really has been possible,
since less than a year
after Typekit launched, for
us to manage this process, and it's
still not a commonly done thing today.
And that's really disappointing.
It clearly means that I'm not
popular enough on the web, and
nobody is listening to me enough to
make this part of their normal workflow.
Make me feel better about myself.
Build this into your process.
I'm giving you a starting point.
It's going to make your site and
your application so much better for users.
Especially when we're dealing
with everything about online and
offline, network latency.
All of things things are impacted and
made better when you have these kinds of
fall back tuning in place so that people
get a good experience right away.
So here's a little bit
more of this in action.
So you can see,
I'm gonna start over again.
>> Jason Pamental: This is it,
what it should look like
with the web fonts loaded.
>> Jason Pamental: Now this is,
the web fonts have not loaded,
but they're not corrected.
And what you'll note is,
look at the spacing of A Whale of a Tale,
that main heading, and
Moby's Trip up top, and sort of the line
breaks down here in the body copy.
Now, we've added a little
bit of correction to it.
Things kinda tightened up a little bit and
then finally the web fonts load.
Nothing's moved around.
So, all of the content is
stayed in the same place,
the navigation hasn't broken or
wrapped in a weird way.
Things aren't jumping around.
Because of small corrections that only
have to get done once, and really,
the truth is, you only have to worry
about whatever's gonna be in view.
So make sure the navigation is okay,
the main level headings,
and the paragraph size and
wrap is close enough.
Because really things are gonna
load before people start to scroll.
You're really just worried about how does
that first screen full of content look.
So you don't have to get
really deeply into it,
you've got to customize three or
four different elements
to make sure that that loading process
is gonna give us smooth experience.